♪♪
I thought we were going
to make macaroni pictures.
We were,
till someone ate
all the macaroni.
And the paper.
It was grape colored!
I had no choice.
Yes, yes, you did...
Guess what I just
found out?
That you can't
milk a horse?
No, but thank you
for sparing me a potentially
embarrassing incident.
This year is Lou's
tenth anniversary
at Camp Kikiwaka!
Cool! We gotta throw her
a surprise party.
I say we decorate
with glitter.
You say that
about everything.
Including my bandage
when I sprained my ankle.
And it made you
feel better.
No, all it did was
make my leg sparkly.
Well, it made me
feel better.
Okay, now remember,
no one say anything.
About what?
Perfect.
What's perfect?
Good, keep that up.
Keep what up? Can somebody
tell me what's going on?
Well, our secret is safe
with him.
ALL:
♪ Kikiwaka, Kikiwaka
♪ Kikiwaka, Kikiwaka ♪
(LIVELY MUSIC PLAYING)
I can't wait
to see Lou's face
when we fix up this truck
and give it to her
for her anniversary party.
She does love
this old thing.
It reminds her
of her ex-boyfriend.
Why?
Because he also smelled
like gas and didn't work.
Do either of you
even know
how to fix up a truck?
Sure! Back on the farm,
I'm the "fix it" guy.
I'm also the "break it" guy,
so it kinda works out well.
And while Finn
is working his
mechanical magic,
I'm going to use my sewing
skills on the seat covers
to get this car looking fab.
Well, I brought
my first aid kit,
because I just know
someone is going to end up
getting hurt.
Oh, we'll be fine.
Ouch!
See? I told you!
Okay, the kids are fixing up
the truck for Lou,
so we're on party detail.
Here are some ideas
I had.
Nach loon stream?
What is these?
Some weird band?
It's not a band.
That says nachos,
balloons, and streamers.
It's my shorthand.
Well,
that's a time saver.
Oh, besides all this,
Lou loves roasting s'mores
by a bonfire.
Oh, let's do that!
Okay. Lou. Fire.
Lou is going to be
so surprised!
Surprised about what?
That...
Zuri is learning Dutch!
Yup...
Yumpin' yimminy
I do love Stroopwafel!
That's also my
favorite member
of the waffle family!
What'cha writing
down there?
Nothing!
But I saw...
No, you heard
the woman! Nothing!
Hey, Lou,
Why don't you go file down
the points on the lawn darts?
Oh, great idea!
They're in the equipment shed.
Except for the one that's
still stuck in
Bad Luck Billy's bicep.
Not again!
That poor kid
really lives up
to his nickname.
Can't I do
something else?
I've been polishing
this mirror
for half an hour.
It's the one job
where you won't get hurt.
Ugh!
The sun reflected
in my eyes!
Hey! Get out of here,
you pesky badgers!
We're not badgers,
we're kids!
Oh, my mistake.
Two kids,
one badger.
I'm a kid, too!
Don't back-sass me,
badger.
Can we help you, sir?
Don't need any help.
My name is Gerald Barker,
grew up 'round these parts,
been away for a long time.
Everything's different now.
Used to be forest,
as far as
the eye could see.
It... Still is.
So it is.
That explains why it smells
like a giant air freshener
out here.
Why are you kids
taking apart
this truck?
We're just fixing it up
as a present
for my cousin.
Well, be sure
to tell your cousin
that this truck's
original owner
was a ruffian,
a hooligan,
a man of ill repute!
Wait, slow down.
A ruffle chip,
a hula hoop...
I think he's saying
he was a bad guy.
He was a gangster!
Babyface Munson!
Back in the 1930s, his gang
used this truck
on their crime sprees.
They were known
as the Peanut
Brittle Bunch
Because they would snap
people's bones
like they were peanut brittle?
No. Because they would
knock over banks
and peanut brittle shops.
Was there a lot of money
in stealing peanut brittle?
No, it's just
a super tasty treat.
Anyway, the story
of Babyface Munson is amazing.
I'm sure it is,
but we really need
to get back to work.
We have to fix up
this truck in time
for our friend's party.
So, I guess we can't hear
your story.
Oh, you wanna hear
my story?
That's not
what I said at all.
This is how that truck
was used
in the biggest bank robbery
ever in Moose Rump...
How many bank robberies
have there been
n Moose Rump?
One!
GERALD: It was a perfect day
for the perfect crime.
Babyface, his main
squeeze, Molly, and his
right-hand man, Clive,
were getting ready to rob
the Moose Rump
Savings and Loan.
Okay, you mugs,
let's knock over
this here bank.
But remember to wear gloves.
So we don't leave
fingerprints, right, Clive?
No. Banks are full of germs.
I don't want us
to get sick.
You don't know
where that money's been.
Well, I know
where it's gonna go!
I'm gonna spend some of mine
to go see the talkies.
Eh, those talking pictures
are just a fad.
Yeah, everybody knows the best
part of the picture show
is reading what they say.
Here, take these.
Whoa!
These are doozies!
If the G-men show up,
they'll be sorry
they were ever born!
Hey!
Mine's empty.
So, I got thirsty.
What?
It's important
to stay hydrated.
Why did you hire him?
'Cause he's got a car!
Have you ever heard
the term "getaway bike"?
Now, let's do this!
It was the heist
of a lifetime.
And it all went
like clockwork...
It was only in the getaway
that things began
to unravel.
Okay, I figured out
what we need
to fix the engine...
A new engine.
I can't believe
he's been in there
for 30 minutes
and he just figured that out.
I can.
Have you ever seen him
try to write his full name?
Mr. Barker,
can I be honest?
I have a hard time
believing you really knew
gangsters from the '30s.
You're pretty skeptical
for a talking badger.
I am not a badger!
No offense, sir,
but old people
tend to exaggerate.
My great-grandfather
claims he invented
the pancake.
Okay, smarty-pantses.
If these are the ravings
of an old man,
how would I know there's
a bullet hole in the
right side of the rear bumper?
He's right!
There is a bullet hole here!
So, your story is true.
Cool!
Wait a minute.
How do we know
he didn't just
see that hole?
With his eyesight?
He still thinks
you're a badger.
Honestly,
that could be a
smell thing.
Why do we have to meet Ravi
in the Grizzly Cabin
to go over Lou's party?
Because we can't
take a chance
on Lou hearing.
Hearing what?
That Zuri's Dutch lessons
are going great!
Ja!
(IN DUTCH ACCENT)
Do you like
my vindmill?
And my vooden shoes?
Dial it back, Bjorn.
Well, I have some news.
Bad Luck Billy is gone.
He died?
He already paid
for the summer, right?
He's not dead!
His cabin took a trip
to town.
And I finished filing
the dart tips.
Well, now that
they're dull,
could you sharpen
them again?
Okay.
That was close.
I know, we really need
to be more careful.
Okay, we sent Lou off
so we can talk.
And I told Mrs. Kipling
to go have a swim.
She cannot keep a secret.
And yet, for three years
we thought she was a dude.
So, for Lou's anniversary,
I am going to bake a cake
that is moist
like the summer dew.
Light like
a butterfly's wing...
Just make it chocolate.
With nuts.
I love nuts.
Peasants.
But to achieve this,
we need to purchase
a new stove.
It is the last appliance
we need to upgrade.
I am afraid old Betsy
is past her prime.
Oops! I didn't wash off
all the blood.
I'll just tell people
it's rust.
"Lou. Fire."
Fire Lou?
ZURI: Let's face it,
she's been here a long time
and just doesn't fit in
with the new Camp Kikiwaka.
RAVI: True.
She has served
the camp well,
but it is time
for her to go.
Say, "aye" if you agree that
it's time to get rid of her.
ALL: Aye!
I can't believe
they're gonna
fire me.
LOU: (THINKING)
Dear Mom, this is the first
time I've ever said this,
but I'm not having fun
at camp.
It turns out the people
I thought were
my closest friends
are getting rid of me faster
than a cow with no udders.
The sun might be shining
bright in the sky,
but my heart is a cold dark
place filled with sorrow.
Smooches. Smiley face.
Smiley face. Your Lou Lou.
P.S. In the future,
I could send you an email
if you ever change your mind
about computers being
"the devil's boxes."
P.P.S.
I'll let you know
if things get better...
But I don't think
they will.
So, did they end up actually
robbing the place?
And how'd the car
get stuck in
the woods?
Did they brush their teeth
after eating
all that peanut brittle?
Who cares?
Dental hygiene
is very important!
I guess old people
can tell a good story, eh?
(ALARM RINGING)
Hurry! Get this jalopy moving!
Make it snappy, Clive!
We've got some hot loot
and a fistful of lollipops.
I stole some from
the "please take one" bowl.
Just making sure
the mirrors are right.
And please put on
your seatbelts.
The dame said now!
Can you give me a chance
to turn on my blinker?
I could get a ticket.
You're gonna get a shiner
if you don't step on it!
I can't drive
when I'm stressed.
This guy's more annoying
than a run in my stocking.
Okay, okay. Next time
we'll take our bikes.
And then what?
(SNORING)
Gerald?
I can't believe
he fell asleep
sitting up.
One time, my great-grandfather
fell asleep while walking.
We didn't realize it
until he fell off the pier.
(GASPS) Give me back my teeth!
We don't have your teeth,
but can you hurry up
and tell us the rest
of the story?
And make it fast,
because we have to
get this truck ready
for our friend Lou's
anniversary party.
(SIGHS) I haven't done
anything fast since I had
two good hips.
GERALD: The coppers
were on their tail,
so Babyface told Clive to
drive into these here woods.
But the engine gave out.
So they were done for.
She blew a gasket.
I'm about to blow a gasket
if you can't get this heap
running!
(SIREN BLARING)
It's the coppers!
We gotta skedaddle!
I can't get caught!
If my mom finds out,
I'll get in a lot of trouble.
Like, no radio
for a month trouble.
We gotta make
a break for it.
(SIRENS APPROACHING)
(GRUNTING)
I'm stuck in the seat belt!
Help!
Sorry, but Johnny Law
is hot on our tracks!
Molly, you can't leave me!
You said I was
the bee's knees!
You are, honey,
but I'm buzzin' off.
Me too.
But we'll visit you
in the big house.
Or you could help me
out of here!
Fine! I hope you chip a tooth
on that peanut brittle!
Molly and Clive just left
Babyface behind?
Whatever happened to him?
Babyface? Well, he went
to jail for a long, long time.
But he just got out,
and he wants the money
from that heist!
How do you know?
Because...
I'm Babyface Munson!
You're Babyface?
More like Wrinkleface.
But you said
your last name
was Barker!
You lied to us!
Ooh, I lied.
I'm a hardened criminal!
What do you expect?
I've got to get my money!
Where is it?
I left it under the seat.
Wait a minute...
You've already found it!
Now, give it back!
We didn't find any money
in the truck.
Also, why'd you bother
telling us that whole story?
I like a good story.
But enough dilly-dallying.
This suitcase is loaded
with dynamite.
Now, hand over my money,
or I'll blow us all into
the next century!
Cool! Time travel!
Not what he meant!
I cannot believe Emma,
Ravi, and Zuri
would turn on me like this.
After all I've done for them,
they toss me aside
like a dirty diaper?
Well, you know what?
I'm not going to take this
sitting down.
I'll show them!
Thank you for listening,
Layla.
(AIR HISSES)
(SCREAMS)
I love our new stove.
The CookMaster
is self-cleaning,
can roast an entire turkey
in twenty minutes,
and it is super shiny!
It's just a stove.
Just a stove?
Would you call
the Large Hadron Collider
"just" a magnet?
Honestly, I have no idea.
Either way, make sure
Lou's cake for
her anniversary is amazing.
Oh, hey, Lou.
Where's Woody going?
And what exactly did he pack?
I'm the one who's leaving.
I quit.
What?
What are you talking about?
Why would you quit?
You know why!
Lou, wait!
Tell me what's wrong.
There's nothing to say.
But I do...
I don't want to hear it.
Come, Woody.
No, Woody, don't look back.
What just happened?
Were you not paying attention?
Lou just quit.
This is really gonna
put a damper on
her anniversary party.
I cannot believe Lou quit.
Luke! What did you do?
Excuse me?
Oh, sorry.
Force of habit.
Why in the gods
would she leave us?
We have to go after her!
All in favor, say "aye."
Aye.
We don't know
where the money is.
We don't know anything.
Finn barely even knows
how to tie his own shoes.
It's true. Even loafers
kind of confuse me.
Guys, what are you
doing out here?
And why are you hanging out
with the world's oldest
traveling salesman?
Whoever you are,
not a good start.
He's an old bank robber.
What?
And he thinks
we stole the money
he hid inside that truck.
I'll take care of this.
Look, sir, I know these kids,
and when they say
they don't have your money,
they don't.
So if you'll excuse us,
we'll be on our way.
He's also got a suitcase
filled with dynamite.
Next time lead with that!
When I called you "old,"
I meant wise.
Quiet!
I don't have all day,
I have a bingo game at seven.
So if you don't
give me back
my money,
you're all goners!
Oh, my gosh!
That old man
is holding them
captive!
What should we do?
Good idea, Ravi,
go get help.
Yes...
That is exactly
what I was doing.
ZURI: So, what's the plan?
The plan is...
To think of a plan.
That's all you've got?
Maybe you should have
gone for help and
Ravi should have stayed.
You know,
you're a very
critical person.
Hello!
I can hear you.
I may be old,
but the batteries
in my hearing aid
are new!
Now, get out here!
What are we gonna do now?
Wait it out.
He's old, he'll have to use
the bathroom sometime...
Or die.
Again with the great plans.
It's been hours.
I can't believe
he still hasn't gone
to the bathroom.
Who says I haven't?
At least I'm not
the only one...
For the last time,
you and your friends
better tell me where
the money is!
They are not my friends.
What? Of course we are.
Lou, what is going on?
Why did you quit?
I quit because I heard you
talking about how you were
going to fire me!
That's nuts!
We would never
fire you.
But I heard you talking
about how I've been here
a long time,
and I just don't
fit in anymore,
even though
I served the camp well...
Oh, we were talking about
the old stove, not you.
But I saw your pad that said,
"Fire. Lou."
That's because we were
planning a special bonfire
for your anniversary.
To show how much
we appreciate you.
Really?
Of course! You mean
the world to us.
We could never imagine
Camp Kikiwaka without you.
Yeah, you are Camp Kikiwaka.
Not to mention my bestie.
And we were fixing up
the truck
as a present for you.
You guys were doing
all that for me?
Yes. To show how much
we love you.
Aw, I love you guys too.
(SNIFFLES)
What's the matter, Babyface?
Did you just realize
you missed the whole
disco craze?
No,
I'm just so darn touched
by how much you all care
for each other.
Not like my two
no-good partners,
Molly Malaney,
and Clive Redding.
Wait,
I've heard those names before.
They ran off and left me
alone to rot in jail.
Then I never heard
from them again.
(STAMMERS) Not even
a post card,
which would have been nice.
Wait a minute.
They are the richest people
in Moose Rump.
Or they were until Emma,
Ravi, and Zuri showed up.
After the police
took you away,
they must have
come back to the truck
and taken the money!
I can't believe it!
Eh, if you can't trust
two crooks, who can you trust?
I got the loot!
Woo-hoo!
We're going to be richer
than one of those
Rockefellers!
Think of all the peanut
brittle we can buy
with this dough-ray-me!
But what if Babyface finds out
we took it?
He'll come after us
when he gets out
of the hoosegow.
Don't worry, dollface.
My cousin is his lawyer.
He's so bad, his last client
got the chair for jaywalking.
(GASPS) The time-out chair?
Yeah.
Those crooks!
They stole the money
that I helped them steal.
I can't believe
they did that to me.
Hey!
I've got the dynamite!
Well, get rid of it!
Don't give it to me!
(SCREAMS) Fake leather!
(ALL SCREAM)
Are we dead?
Cool, I'm a ghost!
Watch me run through this car!
(GRUNTS)
Peanut brittle?
You told us it was dynamite!
You lied again!
What don't you get about
"hardened criminal"?
We've been terrified
of a suitcase full of candy?
Well, you better finish
that candy now, mister,
because my brother
is bringing the police,
and they're going to take you
back to prison!
Well... (SIGHS)
I guess it's all for the best.
I've got nothing
out here anyway.
No family, no friends...
We could be your friends.
Thank you, kids,
but you don't want to
end up like me.
I made a big mistake
when I was younger
and I've been paying for it
my whole life.
And now, I guess I'm going
back to the big house.
Emma, Lou,
please don't send
Mr. Munson back to prison.
Yeah, he's really
a sweet guy.
And, cousin Lou,
doesn't he remind you of
our great grandpa, Festus?
Kind of.
If he had a wooden leg
and smelled like cat litter.
Can we please keep him?
Okay.
Yay!
Awesome.
Thank you.
But, sir, please,
no more threatening people
with a briefcase
full of candy.
I promise. Thanks.
You know, I don't have any
great-grandkids of my own,
but if I did
I'd want them to be
just like you.
Come on, guys,
I hear we've got a party
to get back for.
Do you want to join us,
Mr. Munson?
Sure. I'll bring dessert.
There he is, officers...
Huh?
I swear, there was
a dangerous criminal here.
He's about 5'2",
a hundred years old,
looked kind of like
a cranky hobbit...
Um... (CHUCKLES)
Peanut brittle anyone?
(COUGHS)
How old is this?
Cousin Lou,
here's your present.
Aw! I love it.
Turns out fixing up
a real truck is harder
than it looks.
But with this
you'll save big on gas.
Thank you all so much.
It's perfect!
Thank you again
for inviting me.
You're welcome.
Lou, I'm surprised you
didn't suspect we were
throwing you a party,
since this is your tenth year
at Camp Kikiwaka.
And that is a big deal.
Actually, it was an even
bigger deal two years ago,
on my real tenth anniversary
of being at camp.
Oops. Who wants
more cake?
Last time I had cake,
there was a nail file in it.
That must have
been painful.
Tell me about it.
I found out the hard way.
Well, I'm just glad
you are out of prison
and have changed your ways.
So am I.
(THUDS)
Is that my brand-new
toaster? How could you?
You people just don't get
the whole criminal
thing, do you?